Hello friends
In this video let us learn how to write
algorithm, pseudo code and draw flow chart
for the task to check if a number is zero or non zero
For example, if we have a number 10 given as input
we have to check if it is equal to zero
and if it is print "Zero" otherwise print "Non-zero"
So for number 10, the output will be "Non-zero"
And for number 0, the output will be "Zero"
So that is our task.
And how can we perform this task?
Let us write the algorithm first.
So first step of the algorithm is to start the process
and we will need a variable num to store the input number.
So second step is to declare this variable num.
Now we have the variable ready.
But we don't have the number to be checked.
It should be read from the user to variable num.
So that is the third step.
Read the number from user to num.
Now the number is ready.
Now we have to check if it is equal to zero.
And if it is true, print "Zero"
And if it is false, print "Num is non-zero"
and the last step is to stop the process.
So that was the algorithm.
Now let us write the pseudo code.
First begin and get input to num.
and check if num is equal to zero
And if it is, print "Zero". Else print "Non-zero"
and end.
So that was the pseudo code
Now let us draw the flow chart for this process
First start.
and we will use the oval symbol for start and stop of a process.
Next we have to get input to num
And as we learnt, we will use a parallelogram symbol
for input and output functions
Next check if num is equal to zero
And for these kind of decision making statements, we use a diamond symbol.
We can go to different stages from this point
And if this condition is false print "Non-zero"
And if it is true print "zero"
And as we learnt since these are output functions
we will use a parallelogram symbol.
And both cases will then go to end stage
So our task was to read a number from user
and check if it is zero or non zero
and print the result on the screen.
And we learnt how to write the algorithm, pseudo code and draw flowchart for this task.